Add "docpath" SVCB ParamKey definition (#28)
core-wg/draft-dns-over-coap: draft-ietf-core-dns-over-coap.md

to discover CoAP over (D)TLS servers using the "alpn" SvcParam. This document specifies "docpath" as
a single-valued SvcParamKey whose value MUST be a CBOR sequence of 0 or more text strings (see
{{-cbor}}), delimited by length (in total octets) for the the SvcParamValue field. If the
SvcParamValue ends within a CBOR text string, the SVCB RR MUST be considered as malformed.

Note, that this specifically does not surround the text string sequence with a CBOR array or similar
CBOR data item. This path format was chosen to coincide with the path representation in CRIs
({{-cri}}). Furthermore, it is easily transferable into a sequence of CoAP Uri-Path options by
mapping the initial byte of any present CBOR text string (see {{-cbor, Section 3}}) into the Option
Delta and Option Length of the CoAP option, provided these CBOR text strings are all of a length
between 0 and 12 octets (see {{-coap, Section 3.1}}). Likewise, it can be transfered into a URI
path-abempty form (see {{-uri, Section 3.3}}) by replacing the initial byte of any present CBOR text
string with the "/" character, provided these CBOR text strings are all of a length lesser than 24

> octets.

Reviewer: (Could also be value-list because that's what zone files already use)

> octets.

Author: See https://github.com/core-wg/draft-dns-over-coap/pull/28/files#diff-3447d898853b49b9d631406ac996197ef45750f12dbd2bc394787a3ac56933bbR196-R197 for now. We can also use the value list route, but need to look into that format first.

> octets.

Reviewer: value-list is described at https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9460.html#name-decoding-a-comma-separated -- not sure where that comes from originally or how that language works as a whole.

> octets.

Author: Mh... I think I prefer CBOR-diag, if that is how the value-list format works. Your [off-line] worries about commas seem to me to be unjustified when looking at the value-list format.

> octets.

Author: > "docpath" sounds a bit vague - could it be "coappath" or "coapath" ?

How is "coappath" less vague (referring to the transport protocol) than "docpath" (referring to DoC, DNS over CoAP, the application protocol used over said transport)? The name was chosen in line with "dohpath" which uses an URI template which we don't need for DoC. There a simple path suffices.

> octets.

Reviewer 2: oh - thinking about it more you are more than correct.  I do not know what came over me.

> octets.

Author: No worries. We were actually wondering off-line, if there was some insight with the history of "dohpath" in that and if generalization would indeed make sense. 

Would it have made sense if e.g. "dohpath" would have been called "httppath", too? The fact that we are asking for a DNS resource can be inferred from the query or just the fact that they are in a DNR-related message. As such, having the information DNS+path encoded in this codepoint might be redundant and just having the path information would suffice and even re-usable for other use cases in the future.

Moreover, as pointed out, differing from "dohpath" we only encode a path in the value (not a URI template). So it _is_ already more generalized.

> octets.

Reviewer: Summarizing my original question: Seems to be OK, https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9460.html#name-decoding-a-comma-separated- has an example of a quoted / escaped SVCB parame value, so that part is fine. (and IIUC, dohpath is also fine from the last posts)

{{-ddr}}.
Automatic configuration SHOULD only be done from a trusted source.

A DoC server can also be discovered using SVCB Resource Records {{-svcb}}, {{-svcb-dns}} or DNR
Service Parameters {{-dnr}}.
\[TBD: draft-lenders-core-coap-dtls-svcb\] provides solutions
to discover CoAP over (D)TLS servers using the "alpn" SvcParam. This document specifies "docpath" as

> a single-valued SvcParamKey whose value (in both presentation and wire format) MUST be a URI

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering whether we can't offer an array of Uri-Path option values in some form.

Author: Doing an array with SvcParams would, to my understanding, mean that one needs to provide the "docpath" SvcParamKey multiple times (at least if we don't want to fiddle around with including yet even more data types here). This raises several questions to me: What to do in an absence of a Uri-Path option (i.e. root path)? Not having a docpath key provided? Having it empty? Not providing it at all? Would, for the latter, a client be able to distinguish SvcParams for a DoC server from any other CoAP server?

Reviewer: We've discussed briefly whether there would be CRIs or URIs in here; going with URIs removed the ambiguity of earlier versions, but is indeed possibly not ideal.

If multiple values are a thing in SvcParamKey, that would neatly make the default case very efficient, and only become a "burden" if multi-segment paths are used.

The natural thing from a CoAP PoV would be to not provide any at all, bringing us back to the "can we just not set any" discussion we had in a previous iteration, and maybe shied away from too fast: After all, this does not occur in an arbitrary service parameters set (I think it'd make little sense in a hypothetical `_coap SVCB` record, such a record would be used by discovering .well-known/core and then maybe finding a DNS server there), but it is found in a response to a `_dns` SVCB request or the equivalent response from one of the DNRs -- and there, we infer that DoC is present not from the docpath, but from the presence of a CoAP transport in DNS, and then docpath is treated as a plain list, which may be empty.

Author: > Doing an array with SvcParams would, to my understanding, mean that one needs to provide the "docpath" SvcParamKey multiple times

Sorry, must have misremembered this from a different spec. Reading RFC 9460 again, it specifically states that duplicate SvcParams are not allowed in a SVCB record:

>   Clients MUST consider an RR malformed if:
>
>   *  the end of the RDATA occurs within a SvcParam.
>
>   *  SvcParamKeys are not in strictly increasing numeric order.
>
>   *  the SvcParamValue for a SvcParamKey does not have the expected
>      format.
>
>   Note that the second condition implies that there are no duplicate
>   SvcParamKeys.

Author: So this raises the question: How would an array of URI-Path options be provided?

Author: > After all, this does not occur in an arbitrary service parameters set (I think it'd make little sense in a hypothetical `_coap SVCB` record, such a record would be used by discovering .well-known/core and then maybe finding a DNS server there), but it is found in a response to a `_dns` SVCB request or the equivalent response from one of the DNRs -- and there, we infer that DoC is present not from the docpath, but from the presence of a CoAP transport in DNS, and then docpath is treated as a plain list, which may be empty.

I'm still not convinced that an operator might just be allowed to register e.g.

    coap.example.com.  7200  IN SVCB 3 coap.example.com. (
        alpn="co" port="5684" docpath="/" )
       
with no intention to serve anything else but DoC at this endpoint. So the context clues that this is a DoC server would be missing if the SVCB record alone is looked up (of course, they then can use `.well-known/core` to look it up, but that's just one query more). Likewise, it gives an easy hint where to find the DoC server in case any other services are provided at the `coaps://coap.example.com` endpoint.

Author: @chrysn and I discussed this and we decided to encode this as a sequence of CBOR text strings. See https://github.com/core-wg/draft-dns-over-coap/pull/28/commits/e08242cf4af5c2a6a29bbb7ccd8936f8a65d5093. The reasoning can also be found there.

> reference ({{-uri}}) in its path-abempty form. The DoC client MUST send any DoC request to the CoAP

Reviewer 3: Editorial fine point: The MUST probably needs to be qualified by "To use the service binding, ..." (the possession of it does not mean that you will be using it).

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/core-wg/draft-dns-over-coap/pull/28/commits/1cc69527a9c3094b169eaa2420b39417acba3961

{{-ddr}}.
Automatic configuration SHOULD only be done from a trusted source.

A DoC server can also be discovered using SVCB Resource Records {{-svcb}}, {{-svcb-dns}} or DNR
Service Parameters {{-dnr}}.
{{-core-dnr}} \[TBD: change to draft-lenders-core-coap-dtls-svcb when published\] provides solutions
to discover CoAP over (D)TLS servers using the "alpn" SvcParam. This document specifies "docpath" as
a single-valued SvcParamKey whose value (in both presentation and wire format) MUST be a CoAP

> resource path. The DoC client MUST send any DoC request to the CoAP resource identified with the
> scheme associated with protocol identified with the "alpn" SvcParam or a comparable SvcParam, the
> authentication name as the host, the port from the "port" SvcParam (if present), and the path from
> the "docpath" SvcParam.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource path. The DoC client MUST send any DoC request to the CoAP resource identified by using the "docpath" SvcParam to construct a request URI as described in \[ draft-lenders-core-coap-dtls-svcb \].
```

This very business of matching a scheme to the ALPN and where host and port go precisely is something we can state over there once and for all, and that will state that applications can construct a request URI from the parameters and a to-be-specified parameter for the path.

> resource path. The DoC client MUST send any DoC request to the CoAP resource identified with the
> scheme associated with protocol identified with the "alpn" SvcParam or a comparable SvcParam, the
> authentication name as the host, the port from the "port" SvcParam (if present), and the path from
> the "docpath" SvcParam.

Author: How about:

```suggestion
resource path. The DoC client MUST send any DoC request to the CoAP resource by using the "docpath"
SvcParam to construct a resource identifier as described in \[TBD: draft-lenders-core-coap-dtls-svcb\].
```

? This way, the weird “the CoAP resource identified by using the "docpath" SvcParam […]” wording is fixed and we don't ossify ourselves to just URIs but also allow e.g. for CRIs ;-).

Reviewer: WFM, but docpath itself being a URI reference already pretty much closes the door, whereas on the highlevel URIs and CRIs are equivalent anyway.

a single-valued SvcParamKey whose value MUST be a CBOR sequence of 0 or more text strings (see
{{-cbor}}), delimited by length (in total octets) for the the SvcParamValue field. If the
SvcParamValue ends within a CBOR text string, the SVCB RR MUST be considered as malformed.
As a text format, e.g., in DNS zone files, the CBOR diagnostic notation (see {{Section 8 of -cbor}})
of that CBOR sequence can be used.

Note, that this specifically does not surround the text string sequence with a CBOR array or similar
CBOR data item. This path format was chosen to coincide with the path representation in CRIs
({{-cri}}). Furthermore, it is easily transferable into a sequence of CoAP Uri-Path options by
mapping the initial byte of any present CBOR text string (see {{-cbor, Section 3}}) into the Option
Delta and Option Length of the CoAP option, provided these CBOR text strings are all of a length
between 0 and 12 octets (see {{-coap, Section 3.1}}). Likewise, it can be transfered into a URI
path-abempty form (see {{-uri, Section 3.3}}) by replacing the initial byte of any present CBOR text
string with the "/" character, provided these CBOR text strings are all of a length lesser than 24

> octets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
octets and do not contain bytes that need escaping.
```
